# dengue_epidemic
In this repo I present my analysis of data on a historical dengue outbreak in a Mexican city. My goal is to determine which variables were related to disease occurence. The data set consists of records on 196 people from two sectors of the city, and the variables include the person's identification number, age, socioeconomic status, the city sector, savings account status, and disease status. The socioeconomic status is a categorical variable with 1 representing the upper status, 2 representing a middle status, and 3 representing a lower status. The savings account status is also categorical, where if the person had a savings account, this variable was entered as a 1, and as a 0 if not. The sector variable was categorical, with 1 indicating that the person lived in sector 1 of the city, and 2 showing that the person lived in sector 2 of the city. The disease status was coded as a 1 if the person had the disease, and a 0 otherwise. Finally, age is recorded in years. 

After analyzing the data with logistic regression and a Naive Bayes classifier, I determined that while increasing age increased the odds of contracting dengue, and that the incidence of dengue depended on the sector of the city, these associations were weak and did not result in high model accuracy when the models were evaluated on the validation set. However, it should be noted that the Naive Bayes classifier did not include age as a variable in the model, as age is continuous and cannot be used in a Naive Bayes classifier. Better data with more associated variables need to be collected to increase the model accuracy. I can conclude that while age and sector of the city may have had some effect on dengue incidence, the socioeconomic status of the person and the status of the person's savings account were not significantly related to the occurrence of dengue.


